CPD - Continuing Professional Development


Date of CPD activity
11/01/2021 - Week 1

CPD activity
Introduction to Web Development.


What have I learnt?
This week I understood the difference between the world wide web and the internet.  
That clients include laptops, P.Cs, mobile phones, which use different browsers like chrome, firefox, edge and safari.  That these browsers mainly use HTML, JavaScript and CSS programming languages.
That servers host/store webpages.

Web design versus web development Front end versus back end.
The responsive web
How does the web work
Elements of a web page like navigation, hero, footer, slider/carousel

How to ping a server to find its IP address

Which websites we can learn programming language from like w3schools, codeacademy
Which youTubers to subscribe to.

About text editors like Visual Studio, atom, sublime text.

We set up git, github, visual studio


How did I use this in practice?
I set up a codeacademy account
I subscribed to youTubers
I helped someone in a professional networks whatsapp group.

What did I find hard?
Concentrating whilst trying to homeschool and half the family having covid-19 :(


Date of CPD activity
18/01/2021 - Week 2 Monday


I saved my CPD to the index file by accident argggggghhhhhh.
Tried to reverse it, but who knows.

What have I learnt?
Today we learnt about the history of HTML 5 and W3 Consortium.
That HTML (structure - bones) CSS (presentation eye colour, clothes) Javascript (behavioural - nerves)

Introduced to tags, anchor, hyper reference, strong, emphasis.  
Container elements versus Stand along elements e.g br= line break, img  images

Document types tell us which language is being used in browser.
Nesting of containers

Heading 1-6 is about importance
s
Link, known as anchor tags, have 3 components.

Relative (local file) versus Absolute (link outside your own domain) paths

How did I use this in practice?
Just did the homework

What did I find hard?
Mving between VSC and github desktop, what drives what.

